Now that we use three different methods to help us develop our hourly and fixed pricing scales let's
do some additional practice quotes you can use the sheet in the downloadable resource for this lesson
if you want to use it to help you with your own practice.
Quotes are to follow along.
The first client quote example dear Lillian I've heard great things about you and needed a quote for
some simple graphic design services.
We're a new business and needed to have a logo and some brand items developed.
How much do you charge for those services.
I have a tight budget but want to pay fairly good for good work.
Thank you and I look forward to hearing from you.
Let's break down this email.
First of all I gather from the email already that there might be a smaller tier 1 client based on already
admitting to a tight budget.
There are also a new company.
So no income is coming in yet to help boost their budget.
They do mention that they want to pay a fair price which gives me a little bit of pricing power to the
upside but not a whole lot.
There are many things we have yet to find out about the client.
So I almost always follow up with an additional question or two before I create a proper quote.
Since this project is small I'm already thinking about a fixed rate price and it might work out better
for both me and the client because of its simplicity so I write back in an email to your client.
I'd be happy to provide you with the quote for these services.
I wanted to clarify a few things before we get started.
First of all out of curiosity what type of business or industry are you in.
Secondly it sounds like you need a logo design but what other specific branded items would you like
to have with it.
Business cards letterhead social media ads.
I want to be able to come up with an accurate quote.
So just getting some quick clarification on items you know I'll need during this time.
I look forward to working together with you to come up with a solution that will work best for your
blooming business.
We need to find out what industry they're in to help us size up the client a little bit further.
If they're in a profitable industry law for example we may have more upside pricing power.
Nonprofits may have a little less pricing power but not always Next we need to find out an exact list
of services they need as they were not totally clear on that.
A lot of clients are not clear on the services they need.
So it's our job to educate them on the different items or services they're going to be looking for the
client emails back.
Lillian I got so excited I forgot to tell you a bit about my business.
We're in the financial industry and our goal is to manage money for local businesses.
We're awaiting a logo that best represents our hiring clientele and looks very professional and polished.
We also like to have all of our stationery is designed as well as e-mail signatures for employees.
We do not need anything beyond that.
At this time but perhaps in the future we'll need additional items.
So now we have a list of everything they need a quote for.
We also know a bit about their industry and know that they'll eventually be a fairly profitable business.
So more time is needed to craft that logo to look polished and professional.
I might put them somewhere between Tier 1 into your 2 because of this.
If they were a less profitable business I might have to put them closer to B being in tier 1.
As you can see none of this is an exact science but all of this is a rough guide to help us come up
with all these different calculations to help us find that right quote project scope will be average
as well.
I don't know much about their marketing but I do know they're going to want to start to do some internal
emails and personal meetings to try to land those local business accounts project exposure in this case
will not be quite as helpful here.
And that's ok it's just one of those many factors we have to help us quote Lillian's experience level
is beginner level at freelancing but she has some intermediate experience working at a previous company
full time as a designer.
She will fall some more here on the scale for you this is a personal rating of yourself based on how
you feel your experience level falls and based on the descriptions and the previous lessons.
Now we have some basis of pricing our fixed rate project we could quote hourly and assume this project
will take 10 to 12 hours and make three hundred twenty dollars for the projects or we can quote a little
bit of a higher fixed price and hope the client approves.
This is why all that extra information we asked for will be helpful in pushing our fixed price as high
as possible without making them nervous or them wanting to seek other freelancers because our quote
was just too high.
Remember our little pricing balance chart and remember we can always bring our pricing down if the client
pushes back but we can never raise our prices once we present a quote a typical logo design based on
research goes from one hundred dollars to 1000 dollars for this sized company.
Let's push for a five hundred dollar quote for the logo design and add an additional 200 dollars as
a separate line item for the other services requested.
Now we're ready to present our quote and there's several ways we can present it simply in an email communication
which breaks it down and gives the total are better yet let's really impress our client and showing
we deserve that higher fixed price even though is a smaller company we can present it in a polished
letterhead document in a proposal format.
We already developed a letterhead and an invoice design and the personal branding section of the class.
There are several invoicing software that you can use to send out proposals or estimates.
One of those is zip books which is free and quick books which is a paid monthly service.
Either one of those can work and there's many more as well.
When you send out invoices and proposals it keeps track of all the numbers and it makes it easy to find
your income when it comes to report it for tax purposes at the end of the year.
You can even create one of these using Word or Canada or Adobe Illustrator with some nicely crafted
images if you prefer not to use invoicing software for this.
Now we have a professionally crafted proposal.
We want to include some necessary notes on our proposal or estimate especially one that quotes that
this is not an invoice but it's merely a guesstimate or estimate.
A final project cost.
Also in our email we can explain the basis for our pricing to further clarify the numbers we proposed.
Dear client thank you for providing this extra information it was helpful in formulating a quote for
you.
See the attached PDA for a detailed proposal and breakdown of each items costs.
If you have any questions feel free to ask.
I'll be happy to clarify.
Of course you hope the email back with the I accept.
Let's begin work email.
But they could reply back with it's a little bit out of my price range email.
This is when you have to decide of taking this client will pay dividends beyond the payment you will
get for the project.
If I think this will be worth dropping my quote I will start by dropping it by 10 percent.
If that fails I'll need to reassess it pursuing the client is worth that steep price cut in some cases
it is and I will pursue a 20 percent rate cut after that.
But once that 20 percent rate cut is declined I'll usually politely decline the project now that we're
getting a good idea of how this back and forth communication and coding with the client goes.
Let's try another quote.